README.rst, before:

Events
~~~~~~
*Bringing the elegance of C# EventHanlder to Python*

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/nicolaiarocci/events.png?branch=master 
        :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/nicolaiarocci/events

The C# language provides a handy way to declare, subscribe to and fire events.
Technically, an event is a "slot" where callback functions (event handlers) can
be attached to - a process referred to as subscribing to an event. Here is
a handy package that encapsulates the core to event subscription and event
firing and feels like a "natural" part of the language.

.. code-block:: pycon
 
    >>> def something_changed(reason): 
    ...     print "something changed because %s" % reason 
    ...

    >>> from events import Events
    >>> events = Events()
    >>> events.on_change += something_changed

Multiple callback functions can subscribe to the same event. When the event is
fired, all attached event handlers are invoked in sequence. To fire the event,
perform a call on the slot: 

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> events.on_change('it had to happen')
    'something changed because it had to happen'

Documentation
-------------
Complete documentation is available at http://events.readthedocs.org

Installing
----------
Events is on PyPI so all you need to do is: ::

    pip install events

Testing
-------
Just run: ::

    python setup.py test

The package has been tested under Python 2.6, Python 2.7 and Python 3.3.

License
-------
Events is BSD licensed. See the LICENSE_ for details.

Contributing
------------
Please see the `Contribution Guidelines`_.

Attribution
-----------
Based on the excellent recipe by `Zoran Isailovski`_, Copyright (c) 2005.

.. _LICENSE: https://github.com/nicolaiarocci/events/blob/master/LICENSE 
.. _`Zoran Isailovski`: http://code.activestate.com/recipes/410686/
.. _`Contribution Guidelines`: https://github.com/nicolaiarocci/events/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst

Commit message:

tox and Python 3.4 in README too.

README.rst, after:

Events
~~~~~~
*Bringing the elegance of C# EventHanlder to Python*

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/nicolaiarocci/events.png?branch=master 
        :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/nicolaiarocci/events

The C# language provides a handy way to declare, subscribe to and fire events.
Technically, an event is a "slot" where callback functions (event handlers) can
be attached to - a process referred to as subscribing to an event. Here is
a handy package that encapsulates the core to event subscription and event
firing and feels like a "natural" part of the language.

.. code-block:: pycon
 
    >>> def something_changed(reason): 
    ...     print "something changed because %s" % reason 
    ...

    >>> from events import Events
    >>> events = Events()
    >>> events.on_change += something_changed

Multiple callback functions can subscribe to the same event. When the event is
fired, all attached event handlers are invoked in sequence. To fire the event,
perform a call on the slot: 

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> events.on_change('it had to happen')
    'something changed because it had to happen'

Documentation
-------------
Complete documentation is available at http://events.readthedocs.org

Installing
----------
Events is on PyPI so all you need to do is: ::

    pip install events

Testing
-------
Just run: ::

    python setup.py test

Or use tox to test the package under all supported Pythons: 2.6, 2.7, 3.3, 3.4. 

License
-------
Events is BSD licensed. See the LICENSE_ for details.

Contributing
------------
Please see the `Contribution Guidelines`_.

Attribution
-----------
Based on the excellent recipe by `Zoran Isailovski`_, Copyright (c) 2005.

.. _LICENSE: https://github.com/nicolaiarocci/events/blob/master/LICENSE 
.. _`Zoran Isailovski`: http://code.activestate.com/recipes/410686/
.. _`Contribution Guidelines`: https://github.com/nicolaiarocci/events/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst
